# My Mobile Responsive Porfolio

## Introduction

In today's day and age, technology can take on the form of a vast array and assortment of screen sizes of media devices. You can view pages on a computer screen monitor, a tablet, and even on a handheld phone. This means that web pages need to be designed to be adaptive and media responsive depending on the screen size the page is being viewed on. A responsive design ensures that web applications will look excellent on a variety of devices, regardless of the size or type of media device.

As a junior developer, I was tasked with creating a mobile-first application. I felt that this exercise will be beneficial, because there will be times when I will have to create an application that looks mobile ready. Additionally, there will be times I can be tasked with adding a responsive design to an existing application. My motivation for doing this project was to test the skills I learned in class on Bootstrap CSS Framework. I also wanted to create a portfolio that is responsive so that I can showcase the future projects and assignments I will complete in this course on any type of device for any potential employers.

How I Created My Responsive Portfolio

I first started this assignment by making the containers for the Header and Navigation links. To do this, I compared the sizing of the containers on the sample image for large media screens. I read over and referenced the offical Bootstrap documentation and picked out the objects and utilities that I liked. Once I found something I preferred, I tinkered with it in my html file and attempted to manipulate it to how I wanted. Once I got the base for the header, I started adding place-holder content for the Bio-Image and Bio information. I then moved on to the contact page and referenced the Bootstrap documents to add a form utility that accepted inputs for Name, Email, and a brief message. Once I figured out how to make the form, I moved onto the portfolio page. It took me a bit to figure out the containers and the text overlay, but I finally settled on using the cards utility in Bootstrap. While starting out on this assignment, I first attempted to get my page to look like the sample images. Then I went back and used what I learned on the portfolio page to fix the layout of the header and main content containers on the About me page and the Contact page. I wanted to ensure that each of the pages looked acceptable at large media screen sizes. I then went back and used what I learned on Media Breakpoints to ensure that each of the default media screen pixel sizes was responsive for medium, small and extra small screen devices. Lastly, I worked on the footer and attempted to make it a sticky footer.

What I Learned Creating My Responsive Portfolio

I learned that the Bootstrap documentation, while thorough, still required a lot of referencing and trial and error. One of the biggest takeaways I learned from this assignment is that diving head first into a difficult task can be an effective way toward comprehension and grasping the material. A lot of the Bootstrap Utilities wasn't covered in depth in class so looking through the documentation really helped me in getting my pages to look how I wanted. Looking back at this assignment, I felt that creating the portfolio page and the header container really tested my understanding on grid layout sizing of rows and columns.